# Analysis of Open-ended Student Feedback by LLMs

The study evaluates the performance of LLMs in conducting analysis of open-ended student feedback in 3 ways : **aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA)**, **summarisation** and **multifaceted analysis of subject text (MAST)**. This is performed through **3 different experiments** that are briefly explained below. Furthermore, the insights of these experiments are applied in **3 simple applications** to streamline analysis of open-ended student feedback for instructors.


## 1. Experiment 1: Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis (ABSA)
This experiment evaluates the performance of **GPT-5**, a **fine-tuned BERT model** and **fine-tuned
LLaMA 3 8B** models on **ABSA**, specifically their performance in **ASC**, on open-ended student
feedback.

- Each folder contains the fine-tuning/evaluation pipeline used to produce the specific model's results reflected in the final report. It also contains the datasets used to fine-tune/evaluate the models.
- The pipelines for BERT and GPT-5 were run locally. The conda environments used for to evaluate these models are included in the envrionments folder. 
- The pipelines for LLaMA 3 8B models, fine-tuned using instruction tuning and ORCA 2 fine-tuning methods, were run on Google Colab using a NVIDIA T4 GPU. To run these pipelines, upload the fine-tuning notebook to google colab with the respective datasets. 


## 2. Experiment 2: Summarisation
This experiment evaluates the **zero-shot** and **one-shot** performance of **GPT-5.2**, **Claude Sonnet
4.6** and **Qwen 3.5 Plus** on generating abstractive summaries of open-ended student feedback.

- This folder contains the program used to generate summaries from GPT-5.2 using zero-shot and one-shot prompting. Furthermore, these summaries are evaluated with DeepSeek V3.2 on coherence, coverage and accuracy. 
- The folder also contains the 4 sets of 10 student feedback used to evaluate the models. 
- The program is run using the openai conda environment specified in the environments folder.
- Claude Sonnet 4.6 and Qwen 3.5 Plus were evaluated using the same prompts under the same evaluation conditions. Their web-based interfaces were used to generate summaries.

## 3. Experiment 3: Multifaceted Analysis of Subject Text (MAST)
This experiment evaluates the performance of LLMs on two **MAST** tasks: **offensive speech
detection** and **irony detection**. This experiment explores the performance of the **adapted LLaMA 3
8B** models, **fine-tuned using an approach inspired by the ORCA 2 model**.

- Each folder contains the fine-tuning/evaluation pipeline used to produce the adapted LLaMA 3 models and results reflected in the final report.
- Each folder also contains the program used to generate the standard dataset to fine-tune and evaluate the models and humanised dataset used to further evaluate the models. The generated dataset is reflected in the dataset folder. These programs are run using the openai conda environment specified in the environments folder.
- The fine-tuning/evaluation pipelines for LLaMA 3 8B models were run on Google Colab using a NVIDIA T4 GPU. To run these pipelines, upload the fine-tuning notebook to google colab with the respective datasets. 


## 4. Applications
This section details three potential applications of the experiment results: an **aspect-based
sentiment analyser**, an **aspect-based summariser**, and an **offensive speech detector**.

Due to github upload size limits, the relevant models used in these applications can be downloaded from Google Drive at this link (https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1wTklmKes5Yh0QtDqRGDrKn0KdA0FD5xP?usp=sharing).

1. Application 1: Aspect-based sentiment analyser

    - In this feature, an ORCA 2 fine-tuned LLaMA 3 8B model is leveraged to conduct aspect-based sentiment analysis on student feedback comments to identify their attitudes towards various aspects of an instructor’s teaching. Based on this analysis, the most frequently mentioned, most negatively perceived and most positively perceived aspects mentioned by students are captured and presented to instructors, allowing them to easily understand and address the parts of their teaching that matter most to their students. 

    - This application is run on Google Colab using a NVIDIA T4 GPU. To run the program, upload the respective notebook to google colab with the relevant model given in the models folder. 

2. Application 2: Aspect-based summariser

    - This application offers instructors a concise overview of students' opinions on a specific aspect of their teaching. Instead of sifting through numerous individual responses, instructors can refer to a single automated summary, generated by Qwen 3.5 Plus, to efficiently gain a comprehensive understanding of students' opinions.

    - This application is run locally using the openai conda environment specified in the environments folder.

3. Application 3: Offensive speech detector

    - This feature leverages an ORCA 2 fine-tuned LLaMA 3 8B model to detect offensive speech, which flags feedback comments that contain highly negative and rude language. By identifying these comments, instructors can efficiently access comments containing strong expressions and efficiently address the underlying issues. 

    - This application is run on Google Colab using a NVIDIA T4 GPU. To run the program, upload the respective notebook to google colab with the relevant model given in the models folder. 

### Citations
1. Fine-tuning LLaMA models references the linked tutorial (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pK8u4QfdLx0&t=742s)
2. Fine-tuning BERT models references the linked tutorial (https://dzone.com/articles/aspect-based-sentiment-analysis-with-gpt-and-bert)
3. AI-assisted tools were used to support development and debugging.
